---
layout: post
author: MBM
---
 Protocol to study the chemical parts.

We are interested in studying the random behavior of chemical parts. We are considering the following classification:
1. Organic chemistry
   An organic reaction is defined as a reaction involving at least one organic substance. By organic substance we are considering substances with at least one carbon atom.
2. Inorganic chemistry
   It is labeled an inorganic reaction as a non organic reaction, that measn, a reaction where only inorganic substances partcipate. An inorganic substances is defined as a substance without carbon atoms.To obtain these reactions, we need to extract them from the complete list and the organic reaction list.                   
3. Metalorganic chemistry
   A substance is labeled as metalorganic if it contains at least one carbon atom and at least one of the following metal: Li,Be,Na,Mg,Al,K,Ca,Sc,Ti,V,Cr,Mn,Fe,Co,Ni,Cu,Zn,Ga,As,Se,Kr,Rb,Sr,Y,Zr,Nb,Mo,Tc,Ru,Rh,Pd,Ag,Cd,In,Sn,Sb,Cs,Ba,La,Ce,Pr,Nd,Pm,Sm,Eu,Gd,Tb,Dy,Ho,Er,Tm,Yb,Lu,Hf,Ta,W,Re,Os,Ir,Pt,Au,Hg,Tl,Pb,Bi,Po,Ra,Ac,Th,Pa,U,Np,Pu,Am,Cm,Bk,Cf,Es. Here there are some comments related to the code.
    - There are substances with a * in the formula, to Reaxys this seems means ionic bond. The substances with formula without * where assumed as organometalic. This not garantee that a bond between a carbon and metal exists.
    - Substances with * in the formula where classificated in two sets: a salt, where the metal is just a cation; and a organometalic ion, where in one of the ions there are carbon and metal.
     A reaction is organometalic if at least an organometalic substaces participate in the reaction.
4. Platinum Metals chemistry
   It is labeled a platinum metal substance to a substance with at least one of the following metals:  Fe,Ni,Ru,Rh,Pd,Pt,Co,Os,Ir. A reaction with at least one platinum metal substance is labeled as a platinum metal reaction.
5. Alkaline chemistry
   It is labeled an alkaline substance to a substance with at least one of the following metals: Li,Na,Kr,Rb,Cs,Fr. A reaction with at least one alkaline substances is labeled as an alkaline reaction.
6. Noble elements chemistry
   It is labeled a noble substance to a substance with at least one of the following elements: He,Ne,Ar,Kr,Xe,Rn. A reaction with at least one noble substances is labeled as a noble reaction.
7. Rare earth elements chemistry
   It is labeled a rare substance to a substance with at least one of the following rare earth elements: Sc,Y,La,Ce,Pr,Nd,Pm,Sm,Eu,Gd,Tb,Dy,Ho,Er,Tm,Yb,Lu. A reaction with at least one rare substances is labeled as a rare reaction.
8. Actinide chemistry
   It is labeled an actinide substance to a substance with at least one of the following  elements: Ac,Th,Pa,U,Np,Pu,Am,Cm,Bk,Cf,Es,Fm,Md,No,Lr. A reaction with at least one actinide substances is labeled as an actinide reaction.

The script used for classifying the entire set of substances was 1_classification_SUBS.awk using  k70san2/marisol/P_SUB/scr_23_Aug_22/heads_unique_all_subds.tsv as input. The output is a file with ten columns: subsID, year of birth, substance, organic, inOrganic, metOrganic, platinumMe, alcalines, nobles, raras, and actinide. This output is processed by 2_types_reactions_subs.sh, which generates eight files, one for each family. The script used to classifying the reactions was 3_extraction_parts_rxns.sh. This script takes the substance IDs of each family and searches for reactions in which they participate. The output consists of eight files containing the reactions.These outputs have the same structure as required by the Join_density_distri_no1800.py script.

It is worth mentioning that the script used to extract the metalorganic substances utilized two other scripts: MetOrg_classification_SUBS.awk and extractionMetOrg_parts_rxns.sh, in that order. 
This was done to classify the organometallic substances in a more accurate manner.